Mooreds/add stub user guide (#2451)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: site/docs/v1/tech/guides/anonymous-user.adoc

---
layout: doc
title: Anonymous Users
description: This guide walks you through creating anonymous stub users in FusionAuth.
navcategory: developer
---

## Overview

A "stub" user profile, also known as an anonymous user, is a pattern to allow your users to build up profiles gradually before requiring identifying information such as an email address or username. This is a common pattern with business to consumer or gaming applications, where you want to lower friction as much as possible.

> In this guide, you'll be creating anonymous users whenever a user visits a page to watch videos. The videos are about ChangeBank, the global leader in making change.

Reviewer: Just realized there is only on video on the page so need to change to singular.
```suggestion
In this guide, you'll be creating anonymous users whenever a user visits a page to watch the video. The video is about link:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CXDxNCzUspM[ChangeBank], the global leader in making change.
```

[NOTE.note]
====
You'll also want to handle the case where an unknown user wants to register.

In that case, redirect to your normal registration pages.
====

For the purposes of this example, you are going to allow the user to convert to a full account by clicking a link any time they want to, rather than forcing registration based on business logic.

A conversion process looks like this:

* The user chooses to convert their account by providing an email address
* The application retrieves the user Id
* The application updates the user account with the email address
* The application triggers a forgot password email

Here's code that does this.

```python
include::https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-anonymous-user/main/complete-application/server.py[tags=registerAnonymousUserRoute]
```

### The Forgot Password Workflow

> Make sure that you always confirm the user owns the email address which they are entering. Otherwise, a malicious actor could enter any email address, which may lead to unwanted escalation.

Reviewer: This is the same as line 175, I think it works better here.

Since you can only have one forgot password email template per user, you can provide a `state` value specifying this forgot password workflow was started by an anonymous user conversion, and then use logic in the email template.

Here's the example email template with the logic with a `[#if state.anon_user??]` statement.

```ftl
include::https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-anonymous-user/main/kickstart/email-templates/forgot-password.txt.ftl[]
```

> Make sure that you always confirm the user owns the email address which they are entering. Otherwise, a malicious actor could enter any email address, which may lead to unwanted escalation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Cleaning Up After Full Conversion

After the forgot password workflow is completed, the user should be prompted to log in. At this point, the anonymous user has been fully converted to a regular user account, and you can undertake any cleanup that is needed.

> There are two webhook events you could listen for and process cleanup after.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two link:/docs/v1/tech/events-webhooks/[webhook] events you could listen for and process cleanup after.
```

The first is link:/docs/v1/tech/events-webhooks/events/user-password-update[password change]. This is the cleanest option, because when a user has changed their password, they have indicated control of the email address, but this is only available on the enterprise plan.

The second is the link:/docs/v1/tech/events-webhooks/events/user-password-update[successful user login event]. Here, you examine the user who is logging in and see if they have any anonymous user attributes. Since an anonymous user can't log in, because they have a random username and password, this event will never be triggered for that type of user.

> This guide will use the latter option. You'll need to create and register the webhook, which can be done via admin UI or API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will use the latter option. You'll need to link:/docs/v1/tech/events-webhooks/#add-webhook[create and register the webhook], which can be done via admin UI or API.
```
